one of the questions I get asked
obviously is why our comments disabled
on this channel
[Music]
when you meet people are you going to
judge them by their potential to do good
in the future
or are you going to judge them by who
they are right now who they already are
what they're already doing the most
generous thing you can do with people
it's to set aside the bad things they've
done in the past to set aside the harm
they're doing now and to look at them
and relate to them in terms of their
potential to do good in the future and
on a case by case basis I think you need
to meet people and look into their eyes
and you need to make that decision for
yourself there's no way you can make a
blanket decision like this is how I'm
gonna talk to Christians or this is a
home gonna talk to white people who are
into yoga and rock crystals and
pseudoscience but who are also vegan you
know it's again a huge gap they're very
difficult for me to cooperate this
people voted for means out of those
people there's no way you can have a
blanket decision this is how I'm gonna
talk to people who are part of the
scientific community or professional
politicians engage with these ecological
issues but who eat meat who are non
vegan or this is how I'm gonna relate to
people who are hunters but who really
care about ecology and forest
conservation people who hunt and eat
meat but you care about some other
things there is no way you can you can
have a decision that applies to all them
uniformly I think on a case-by-case
basis you need to talk to people you
need to listen to people look into their
eyes if possible and you have to decide
if you have it in you whether or not you
have the generosity of spirit to treat
them not as they are to treat them not
as they deserve to be treated not to
judge them based on their past conduct
or their current conduct but to judge
them based on their potential to do good
in the future to make the world a better
place because the people of this
conference I think some of them have
that potential even if there's scumbags
even if they're engaged in every
ridiculous excuse for organic meat happy
meat for living a lifestyle that I find
ethically unforgivable for living a life
of self-selected obscurity of voluntary
ignorant and excuse making for evil and
cruelty self-indulgence and harm of the
worst kind
am I gonna put that aside and am I gonna
try to do something positive with you
yes or no it's a face-to-face
human-to-human decision and for that
reason I mean one of the questions I get
asked obviously is why our comments
disabled on this channel if you compare
the amount of time you spend if you
spend one hour making comments on the
internet reading in a public forum
whether it's reddit or on YouTube and it
may be fifteen minutes here and there
that adds up you may think oh I never
spend an hour doing comments in the
Internet use a stopwatch actually time
yourself how much time you're spending
talking to strangers to that kind of
anonymous typewritten format whether
it's on Facebook or YouTube or Twitter
many of you watching this video you are
wasting many hours a week but it's very
likely you're spending more than one
hour a week with that kind of typing
communication with strangers I would
challenge you to stop doing that take
that one hour and instead deal with one
person who has some potential by
telephone by Skype or by face-to-face
and as you do that again and again many
times it'll lead nowhere
you'll spend one set one hour talking to
somebody and you'll decide either they
don't have it in them to make some post
happen or that you don't have it in you
to make slim pause that in cooperation
that's fine but I promise you taking
that one hour to talk to one person on
skype by telephone in person it's a much
more meaningful way to seek out the
basis for real activism then engaging in
a hundred hours of anonymous faceless
witty banter and comment sessions
because that can lead nowhere and when
you're doing it I urge you to keep to
keep this concept of generosity of
spirit in mind because you're not out
here to prove that you're smarter than
other people and the internet traps
people that people lose sight of that
they think they're out here to be the
smartest or the prettiest or the most
popular and you're not all of that is
meaningless
the only test that matters is whether or
not you have the generosity of spirit to
cooperate with other people and whether
or not you can find the other people who
really can cooperate with you
[Music]